quarter-inch stamp overlay the super
Krete stamp overlay system is designed
for use over concrete to create a
decorative yet natural appearance to
concrete surfaces the possibilities of
design are endless
with over 200 stamp and texturing mats
and a wide variety of colors to choose
from
the super Krete stamp overlay system is
applied at a thin quarter-inch over bond
coat and is then stamped this system
allows regular unappealing concrete to
turn into a decorative masterpiece at a
fraction of the cost to remove and
replace the concrete completely use this
system to clean strengthen stabilize
resurface protect seal and beautify
virtually any concrete products used in
the system s 12,000 heavy duty degreaser
s 1300 pen accrete s 9300 bond coat s
1700 stamp coat s 9500 color stain s
1710 liquid release agent sealer of
choice all expansion joints must be
honored when coating over existing
concrete with this stamp overlay system
pay attention to where those joints are
and honor them it is common to
incorporate expansion joints into the
desired pattern or texture of choice
this system will take approximately five
days to complete and will require at
least three people for the simplest
application larger areas may require
several sets of stamp and texturing
tools tape off all edges prior to
applying any coatings to protect the
surrounding areas after performing all
the steps required in video 1 for
concrete substrate evaluation crack
repair and surface preparation dampen
the surface not allowing water to puddle
with this application it is important to
remember to stay within yourself because
the product must be wet in order to be
stamped it is imperative you do not mix
and pour out more material than you are
able to stamp at a time always determine
your starting and ending point in
advance and tape off all edges to
protect surrounding areas
know in advance how your stamping tools
piece together and keep your work areas
clean and organized for easy application
and cleanup mix each bag of bond coat s
9300 with four to six quarts of clean
water per bag and simultaneously mix
each bag of stamp coat s 1700 with four
quarts per bag of water in a separate
container additional water may be
required in warmer climates to achieve a
pancake batter consistency each bag of
bond coat used will typically require 12
bags of stamp coat to avoid confusion
between products we recommend labeling
each container with its contents to
apply dampen the concrete surface with
water and from the wall out apply bond
coat with a squeegee at a rate of 250 to
300 square feet per bag remember to not
lie out the bond coat too far ahead
because it may dry before the
application of stamp coat clean up the
bond coat as you go making it uniform
paying attention to edges and cleaning
your tools as you are done with them
bond coat and stamp coat must both be
wet for the products to bond
appropriately together pour out the wet
stamp coat directly over the wet bond
coat and spread it evenly over the bond
coat using a quarter inch gauge rake
using a finishing tool trowel or the
back of a squeegee to remove any lines
that may appear from the gauge rake
application remember to honor all
expansion joints by marking them with a
trowel and clear the bond coat and stamp
coat out of those areas completely
following the line of the joint from
beginning to end
allow the stamp coat as 1702 set so that
is pliable but do not allow the stamp
coat to set completely before the
surface is stamped or textured using a
handheld airless sprayer spray liquid
release as 17-hundred onto the stamps
and onto the surface area to be stamped
simultaneously do not spray the liquid
release too far ahead as it will
evaporate before you are able to get to
the area and stamp it the stamp we used
in this demonstration is royal ashlar
pattern lay the stamps onto the surface
and either walk or pound in the
impression then remove the stamp and
move to an unintended the process until
the entire surface has the impression of
the stamps be sure to lock the stamps
highly together to create your pattern
when stamping pay attention to the lines
joints and details of the pattern when
placing the stamps side-by-side
always check the impression before you
remove the stamp to ensure the pattern
has been fully compressed into the stamp
coat allow stamp coat to completely dry
for at least 24 hours
on the following day tool out the
unclean grout lines and use a diamond
blade to open the expansion joints sweep
or blow off all the debris
with the stamped area with water and
clean the entire surface with a mild
detergent or other non lotion soap mixed
with water and rinse thoroughly do not
put the detergent or soap directly onto
the stamp surface if any shrinkage
cracks are visible sponge and wet stamp
coat into the cracks and remove all
excess material it is now time to
enhance the stamp surface by adding
color mist the stamped area with water
and apply super Krete water-based color
stains s 9500 using a broom sponge brush
or filtered sprayer shake the color
stain well to ensure that all contents
in the product are thoroughly mixed also
filter the stain with a strainer before
pouring the stain into a sprayer it is
best to pour half of the contents into
the sprayer base shake the container
again and pour the remainder of the
product into the sprayer base when
applying color stains use lighter colors
as a base first and highlight areas if
desired with darker colors when
highlighting areas for contrast always
make sure that the base color has dried
and is not wet before applying highlight
colors in this demonstration we use
terracotta color stain as a base coat
when mixing colors before they have
dried the colors may blend together to
form all new colors this can be done but
be sure it is the effect you are trying
to achieve lines and joints can be
enhanced by using a handheld dustless
grinder or diamond blade and can be
grouted out for a more dramatic
appearance and to add dimension grouting
should be done between sealer coats
two coats of a super Krete sealer
required over this application to ensure
durability where and ease of maintenance
the colored surface should be left to
dry completely for 24 hours before
applying any sealers if applying clear
seal + s 8600 two coats may be applied
on the same day apply clear seal plus
using a broom in thin coats and do not
allow it to puddle for a second coat
wait for hours and apply the final coat
allow the surface to dry for 24 hours
before allowing foot traffic